Project Gutenberg's The Bojabi Tree, by Edith Rickert and Gleb Botkin

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Bojabi Tree

Author: Edith Rickert
        Gleb Botkin

Release Date: July 27, 2019 [EBook #59994]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOJABI TREE ***




Produced by Tim Lindell, David E. Brown, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)









THE BOJABI TREE

[Illustration: ALL THE BEASTS WERE HUNGRY]

[Illustration]




  THE BOJABI TREE

  BY
  EDITH RICKERT

  PICTURES BY
  GLEB BOTKIN

  [Illustration]

  GARDEN CITY      NEW YORK
  DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY
  1923

  [Illustration]




  COPYRIGHT, 1923, BY

  DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY

  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, INCLUDING THAT OF TRANSLATION
  INTO FOREIGN LANGUAGES, INCLUDING THE SCANDINAVIAN

  COPYRIGHT, 1922, BY D. C. HEATH & COMPANY

  PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES
  AT
  THE COUNTRY LIFE PRESS, GARDEN CITY, N. Y.

  _First Edition_




THE BOJABI TREE




[Illustration]




CHAPTER ONE

ROBIN RAT


In the land of All-the-Beasts there was a GREAT HUNGER. Some of the
animals who were so HUNGRY were

  Tabby Tiger
    Bruno Bear
      Katy Crocodile
        Robin Rat
          Pinky Pig
            Giddy Goat
              Tommy Tortoise

and many more--more than you could ever count in a year.

[Illustration: THEY COULD NOT EAT IT]

They ran around the wood, here and there and everywhere, eating roots
and twigs and any old scraps they could find. But still they were
HUNGRY.

One day they came to a Big Tree full of fruit. But they could not eat
it, for they did not know what it was.

[Illustration: “LET US SEND ROBIN RAT”]

They sat down in a circle round the tree, and said, “What can we do?”

When they had thought a while, they said, “Let us send Robin Rat up
the river to Leo, our King, and ask him what the fruit is and whether
we may eat it.”

[Illustration: ROBIN RAT PICKS THE FRUIT]

Robin Rat was young and spry. He scuttled up the tree and brought down
one of its fruits to show King Leo.

It was a DELICIOUS looking fruit!

It looked like an

APPLEORANGEPLUMPEARBANANA

but it smelled like a

BANANAPEARPLUMORANGEAPPLE.

[Illustration: SUNSET ON THE RIVER]

Then Robin Rat scuttled down to the river bank and climbed into his
little canoe.

All the day and all the day he paddled

  and paddled
  and PADDLED

up the river.

And the Great Red Sun dropped behind the trees.

Then he found King Leo on the bank, all ready to receive visitors. He
was wearing his crown tipped on the back of his head because he felt
happy. He smiled at Robin Rat as pleasant as you please, and asked him
to stay to supper.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: ALL READY TO RECEIVE VISITORS]

[Illustration: NIGHT IN THE GREAT WOOD]

After supper they curled up and went to sleep. There was nothing else
to do, you see. For this is the way it looked in the

  GREAT WOOD.

[Illustration: IN THE MORNING]

In the morning King Leo said politely, “What can I do for you, my small
friend?”

Then Robin Rat answered, “Please tell us, King Leo, what is the name
of this tree and whether we may eat the fruit of it. We are all SO
HUNGRY!”

[Illustration: KING LEO SNIFFS AT THE FRUIT]

King Leo looked at the fruit that was like an

APPLEORANGEPEARPLUMBANANA

and he sniffed at the fruit that was like a

BANANAPLUMPEARORANGEAPPLE.

Then he said, “It is a good fruit. You may eat it. The name of the tree
is

  BOJABI.”

[Illustration: ALL THE DAY HE PADDLED]

Then Robin Rat hung his cap over his right ear and climbed into his
little canoe.

All the day and all the day he paddled down the great river.

And all the way he was thinking how much he could eat of that

  DELICIOUS fruit.

And at night he came home.

[Illustration: WAITING FOR ROBIN RAT]

All the Beasts were waiting for him on the shore. He came up, whisking
his paddle _this_ way and _that_ way through the water, just to show
how well he could do it.

“What is it, Robin Rat?” said All the Beasts. “Tell us the name!” they
roared and howled and grunted and whined and shrieked and squealed,
each in his own PARTICULAR voice.

“Oh!” said Robin Rat. “I knew it a while ago, but now I have clean
forgotten.”

[Illustration: WHAT HAPPENED TO ROBIN RAT]

Then All the Beasts stepped into the water and upset Robin Rat’s little
canoe.

  They SPLASHED and they
       SPLUTTERED and they
       SP-L-ANKED

Robin Rat.

Squeaksqueaksqueaksqueaksqueak!

Nobody heard a word more from _him_ that day.




[Illustration]




CHAPTER TWO

PINKY PIG


But now All the Beasts were HUNGRIER STILL.

They sat in a circle round the tree and thought a while.

Then they said, “Let us send Pinky Pig to King Leo to ask the name of
the tree. But Pinky Pig,

DO NOT FORGET IT!”

[Illustration: “LET US SEND PINKY PIG”]

[Illustration: ROWING UP THE RIVER]

Pinky Pig trotted away home--

  trip trap, trip trap, trip trap.

He put on his best blue coat and buttoned it up, though it squeezed him
a little.

Then he trotted--trip trap, trip trap, trip trap--down to his little
rowboat and took his oars to row up the big river.

All the day and all the day he rowed

  and he rowed
  and he ROWED

up the big river.

[Illustration: KING LEO ON THE BANK]

And the Great Red Sun dropped behind the trees.

Then he found King Leo on the bank, all ready to receive visitors. His
crown was a little crooked because he had put it on in a hurry when he
saw Pinky Pig coming.

He smiled politely but he did not invite Pinky Pig to stay to supper.

“What can I do for you, my plump friend?” he asked.

Pinky Pig showed him the fruit that looked like an

APPLEORANGEPEARPLUMBANANA

and smelled like a

BANANAPLUMPEARORANGEAPPLE,

and said, “Please, King Leo, we must know the name of this tree or we
cannot eat the fruit. Please be so kind as to tell us.”

Then King Leo said,

  “I have told Robin Rat.
  I will tell you.
  The name of the tree is

  BOJABI!

  Do not forget it.”

[Illustration: “WHAT CAN I DO FOR YOU?”]

[Illustration: H-R-R-R-UMPH!]

Pinky Pig trotted back to his rowboat--trip trap, trip trap, trip trap.

All the night and all the night he rowed--he rowed--and he ro-o-owed
until the oars--dropped--from--his--hands--and the big river took the
boat down itself.

Pinky Pig curled up under the seat. And this is the sound that came
from the boat:

  H-r-r-r-umph
    h-h-r-r-r-_umph_
      h-h-h-r-r-r-r-UM-MPH!

[Illustration: THE ARRIVAL OF PINKY PIG]

In the morning Pinky Pig sat up and rubbed his eyes. He was at home.
All the Beasts stood on the river bank looking at him. “What is it,
Pinky Pig? Tell us the name!” they whistled and snarled and squealed
and shrieked and whined and grunted and howled and roared, each in his
own PARTICULAR voice.

“I know it,” said Pinky Pig. Then he yawned.

“I knew it last night,” he said,
“but--ah--ah--I--must--have--been--asleep, and--ah--for--got--ten it.”

That is the way he talked when he was yawning.

Then All the Beasts jumped into the water and smashed Pinky Pig’s boat
and his oars.

  They PLUNGED about and
        PUNCHED poor Pinky Pig and
        POUNDED him until he went
  plop--plop--into the water.

SQue-e-e-e-e-e-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-AL!

He ran home with the water running off him and making little puddles
here and there.

Nobody heard a word more from _him_ that day.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER THREE

GIDDY GOAT


But now All the Beasts were HUNGRIER and HUNGRIER. They could have
eaten nails if there had been any nails in the Great Wood.

They sat in a circle round the tree and thought a while.

[Illustration]

Then they said, “Giddy Goat is older than Pinky Pig, and wiser than
Robin Rat. Let us send him to King Leo to ask the name of the tree, so
that we may eat the fruit of it before we starve.

  But Giddy Goat,
  DO NOT FORGET IT!”

[Illustration]

“A-rashum!” said Giddy Goat. He was afraid of catching cold. Away he
ran--ker-lipp, ker-lipp--to his house to get a big woolly muffler to
wear on the river. He wrapped it three times round his neck and tucked
it neatly under his beard.

Then he ran--ker-lipp, ker-lipp--down to his little sailboat on the
river.

All the day and all the day he sailed

  and he sailed
  and he SAILED

up the big river.

And the Great Red Sun dropped behind the trees.

[Illustration: SAILING TO KING LEO]

Then he found King Leo on the bank, _not_ ready to receive visitors.
His crown was on straight and he looked very CROSS.

“Whatdoyouwant?” he snapped--just like that.

“A-rashum!” said Giddy Goat. “I beg your Majesty’s pardon. I have a
cold coming on.”

He showed King Leo the fruit that looked like an

APPLEORANGEPEARPLUMBANANA

and smelled like a

BANANAPLUMPEARORANGEAPPLE,

and said, “If you would be so very kind, King Leo, to tell us the name
of this tree, so that we may know whether we may eat the fruit of it.”

Then King Leo said,

  “I have told Robin Rat.
  I have told Pinky Pig.
  I will tell you.
  But I will not tell ANYBODY ELSE.
  The name is BOJABI.
  DO NOT FORGET IT!”

[Illustration: “I BEG YOUR MAJESTY’S PARDON”]

[Illustration]

“A-rash-oo!” said Giddy Goat and he skipped away--ker-lipp,
ker-lipp--to his sailboat.

  All the night and all the night he sailed
             and he sailed
             and he SAILED.

All the way he was remembering the name, and he remembered it very well.

He sailed so fast that he got home in the early, early morning.

And all the way when he wasn’t remembering the name, he was sneezing:

“A-tchoo! A-rashum! A-tchoo!”

All the Beasts were waiting for him--rows and rows of them. Those in
the back rows looked over the shoulders of those in the front rows, or
climbed on their backs.

They pushed and jostled one another until they had upset Giddy Goat’s
sailboat. Ker-splash!--he went into the river.

Such a sight as he was when they pulled him out. His long hair was full
of water. His beard was full of water. His eyes were full of water. His
beautiful new muffler was full of water.

When the animals crowded round him to ask the name of the tree, he
shook himself so that the water flew in their faces, and ran away
home--ker-lipp, ker-lipp--with a most dreadful

[Illustration: A-TCHOO!]

[Illustration: SUCH A SIGHT!]

[Illustration]

His wife made him go to bed. And not one word could anyone get from him
all that day but A-tchoo! A-rashum! A-TCHOO!

[Illustration]




CHAPTER FOUR

TOMMY TORTOISE


By this time All the Beasts were so HUNGRY that they sat round
the tree and cried.

You see there was no one else who had a boat.

“What shall we do?” they wailed and howled and buzzed and grunted and
groaned and sobbed and lamented, each in his own most PARTICULAR voice.

Then Tommy Tortoise, who had been lying asleep in the sun, opened one
eye, and said, “What is all this fuss about? Haven’t you found out the
name of this tree YET?”

They said they had not and cried harder than ever.

“Oh, well,” said he, “if that’s all, I’ll go and get it for you.”

“YOU!” snarled Tabby Tiger.

“You! You!” grunted Bruno Bear.

“You!” snapped Katy Crocodile, biting her word off short.

“You-u-u-u!” trumpeted Elizabeth Elephant.

“You! You! You!” chattered Mimi Monkey.

You never heard such a noise--not even at the circus--as there was when
they all said this, each in his own PARTICULAR voice.

“Yes, me--I mean _I_,” said Tommy Tortoise in his little, thin voice.

Then he crawled slowly home, trailing one foot after the other, as some
boys do on their way to school.

He found his mother knitting stockings and rocking the baby.

“Hssh!” said Mrs. Tortoise. “He’s just dropping off.”

“Mother,” said Tommy Tortoise. “How can I remember the name of that
tree if I go up the river to get it?”

“Tommy,” said Mrs. Tortoise, “do you remember how you used to go to
school with all the other little tortoises and learn things?”

“Yes,” said Tommy.

  “Nine times one makes nine,
  Nine times two makes eighteen,
  Nine times three makes twenty-seven--”

He said the Nines table because anybody can say the Tens, and he wasn’t
sure about the Elevens.

“Hsh!” said Mrs. Tortoise. “That will do. You will wake the Baby.”

“But I will tell you how to remember.” She whispered in his ear.

Then she said, “Now, Tommy, whatever happens to you, mind your manners.
Remember to bow to King Leo and to speak to him so politely that he
will know you have been well brought up.”

“Yes, Mother,” said Tommy Tortoise.

[Illustration: MRS. TORTOISE GIVES ADVICE]

Then he put on his cap with the red tassel, and he went down to the
river. He had no boat; so he had to swim.

  All the day and all the day he swam
           and he swam
           and he SWAM.

When he was tired swimming, he would turn over on his shell and float
with all his legs kicking in the water, just as the Baby kicks in his
bath.

And the Great Red Sun dropped behind the trees.

When Tommy Tortoise reached King Leo’s home, King Leo was NOT curled
up comfortably wearing his crown and ready to receive visitors. He was
standing on the river bank waving his tail. His big head was waggling
_this_ way and _that_ way, and he was not smiling AT ALL.

Before Tommy could speak a word, or even make his best bow, King Leo
said:

“R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R! S-s-cat! S-scamper! S-scat!
S-skedaddle!

  I told Robin Rat.
  I told Pinky Pig.
  I told Giddy Goat.
  I WILL NOT TELL YOU

that the name of the tree is bojabi.

R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R!”

“Bojabi,” whispers Tommy Tortoise to himself, and jumps--ker-lump--into
the river again.

[Illustration: “I WILL NOT TELL YOU”]

[Illustration: SINGING ON THE RIVER]

  All the night and all the night he swam
              and he swam
              and he SWAM.

But it was easy work to let the big river carry him on its back.

All the night and all the night he made up a little song and sang it,
like this:

  “O Robin Rat, what shall we eat?
    Bojabi--bojabi--bojabi.
  O Pinky Pig, so fat and neat,
    Bojabi--bojabi--bojabi.
  O Giddy Goat, so fast and fleet,
    Bojabi--bojabi--bojabi.
  O Humpy Hippo, hard to beat,
    Bojabi--bojabi--bojabi.
  O Bruno Bear, with clumsy feet,
    Bojabi--bojabi--bojabi.
  O Katy Crocodile, here’s a treat,
    Bojabi--bojabi--bojabi.
  O Tommy Tortoise, of Puddle Street,
    Bojabi--bojabi--bojabi.
  O All-the-Beasts, come quick and eat
    Bojabi--bojabi--bojabi.”

And THAT was what his mother had told him to do.

[Illustration]

All the Beasts were lying on the bank of the river. Far away they heard
the little, thin voice of Tommy Tortoise singing his song. They pricked
up their ears, looking _this_ way and _that_ way as they listened.

And presently Tommy Tortoise came crawling up through the mud.

“What is it?” they cried, each in his own PARTICULAR voice. You would
have thought that all the circuses in the world were there.

“Bojabi,” said Tommy Tortoise, and crawled away home without another
word.

[Illustration: SUPPER!]

That night All the Beasts had bojabi for their supper.

But Tommy Tortoise had cream with his.

[Illustration: THE KING OF ALL THE BEASTS]

After that All the Beasts in that wood were never hungry. They could
always eat bojabi.

They made Tommy Tortoise their king. “For,” they said, “if he could
remember the name of the bojabi tree, he can do anything.”

As far as I know he is king of All the Beasts in the Great Wood to-day.

                                    --Adapted from an African Folk Tale.

[Illustration: THE End]




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.





End of Project Gutenberg's The Bojabi Tree, by Edith Rickert and Gleb Botkin

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOJABI TREE ***

***** This file should be named 59994-0.txt or 59994-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/9/9/9/59994/

Produced by Tim Lindell, David E. Brown, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

